New Power Metrics and Power Management capabilities on StarlingX (#252)
StarlingXWeb/starlingx-website: src/pages/blog/starlingx-configurable-power-management.md

---
templateKey: blog-post
title: New Power Metrics and Power Management capabilities on StarlingX
author: Davi Frossard

> date: 2023-11-16T11:14:00.000Z

Reviewer: The StarlingX release is currently scheduled to come out in March 2024. Would it be ok with you to schedule this blog post around the time of the release?

Author: Yes, sounds good!

By controlling CPU performance states (P-States) and CPU idle states (C-States), the tool allows each core to be individually controlled according to the needs of each application's workload. Below, there is a study about Kubernetes Power Manager requirements, components, use cases, operation and impacts on StarlingX Platform.

## Components

- Power Manager: controls the nodes, serves as a manager, or source of truth gathering information on the power profiles applied to each node.

  - Power Config Controller:  part of the power manager, is responsible for evaluating the presence of a default power configuration for the node and, when present, starting the Power Node Agent.
  - Power Config: describes the power configuration of a given node indicating one or more profiles that can be used.

- Power Node Agent:  per-node pod managed by a DaemonSet, responsible for managing the power profiles applied. Communicates with Power Manager to establish power policies to be applied to the node.

>   - Power Profile: establishes CPU operating frequency ranges, Energy Performance Preference (EPP), and governor. The profile has a generic aspect, that is, it only describes a possible style of power control, and its application is the responsibility of Power Workload. The pods' deployment files, or Power Config files, can indicate the profiles they want to use by including the device power.intel.com/<POWERPROFILE>. It is also important to note that all CPUs not assigned to a specific power profile are pooled in a profile known as the *Shared*. This profile must be created manually by the user.

Author: I will mention that in the introduction.

- Throughput: The impact on throughput depends on how well Kubernetes Power Manager is configured to handle resource allocation while considering power constraints, potentially optimizing the cluster's performance and increasing throughput. However, if Power Manager makes suboptimal decisions, it may impact throughput negatively.

The exact performance impact will depend on several factors such as workload characteristics, cluster configuration, and the specific configuration of Power Manager. Conducting thorough testing in the end-user environment is recommended to understand the precise effects on power consumption, latency, throughput, and other aspects.

# Conclusion

> In conclusion, with the ability to collect and publish power data and metrics, StarlingX takes a significant step forward in providing users with valuable insights into their energy usage patterns, contributing to more informed decision-making. The introduction of the Kubernetes Power Manager feature enables the system to optimize power usage according to user needs and workload characteristics. This feature offers various capabilities, including the ability to assign power profiles on a per-core or per-application basis, control frequency ranges for individual cores, govern core behavior within these ranges, specify which power levels (C-States) a particular core can access, and determine system behavior in response to workloads with known intervals or demands. Throughout this blog post, we've explored common use cases where the Kubernetes Power Manager can be advantageous, along with considerations regarding its operation and impacts on the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this blog post, we've explored common use cases where the Kubernetes Power Manager can be advantageous, along with considerations regarding its operation and impacts on the platform.

In conclusion, with the ability to collect and publish power data and metrics, StarlingX takes a significant step forward in providing users with valuable insights into their energy usage patterns, contributing to more informed decision making. The introduction of the Kubernetes Power Manager feature enables the system to optimize power usage according to user needs and workload characteristics. This feature offers various capabilities, including the ability to assign power profiles on a per-core or per-application basis, control frequency ranges for individual cores, govern core behavior within these ranges, specify which power levels (C-States) a particular core can access, and determine system behavior in response to workloads with known intervals or demands.
```

> For further information about the features, please refer to the documentation provided below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further information about the features, check out the project documentation:
```
